Technology & Combat Characteristics
Despite its power, the GN-0000 00 Gundam is a highly experimental unit that suffers from power instability issues and so requires constant maintenance and fine-tuning. The Twin Drive System was also a very new technology, requiring the external stabilizing equipment on 00's main support unit, the GNR-010 0 Raiser, to safely execute Trans-Am and fully synchronize the GN Drives. Some data from GN-XXX+GNR-000 Sefer Rasiel was also exploited in its development.

When combining is needed, laser guidance sensors would mutually lock onto each other, with a Haro auto-configuring the docking sequence. 0 Raiser's binders detach from the 0 Raiser body and latch onto 00's GN Drives, and its main body combines with the 00 Gundam's backpack, resulting in an angelic-like form. After successful docking, 00 Gundam's system screen(s) reflect the changes to the frame and the Twin Drive's stabilization. Each of 0 Raiser's binders can be mounted with a GN Shield to increase it's defensive capabilities, this form can remain the same even when docked onto 00 Gundam's GN Drive housing units. Without the GN Shields attached, the binders also act as shields themselves, capable of blocking beam shots from GNZ-003 Gadessa's GN Mega Launcher in Trans-Am mode.

As the 00 Raiser Twin Drive reaches 100% synchronization rate, it can achieve GN Particle generation rates far exceeding 300% during Trans-Am(700% during the first dock), and also gains the usage of the Raiser System. These feats allow 00 Raiser to fully harness its massive particle production (too much for the 00's frame to properly handle alone) and perform at peak capacity. While in Trans-Am, 00 Raiser has also been seen utilizing quantum teleportation in a few battles although the specific activation and control mechanism has not been elaborated upon.

The Raiser System allows the 00 Raiser to execute powerful attacks such as a massive GN Beam Saber dubbed the "Raiser Sword", allowing for greater close combat abilities, and using Trans-Am mode with even greater power and duration. Originally requiring both of its GN Swords working with the 0 Raiser's binders to produce and control the Raiser Sword, the 00 was later equipped with a GN Sword III. This weapon was capable of harnessing the power of the Raiser System to generate a refined, more controllable version of the Raiser Sword.

The power of 00 Raiser is further enhanced with the presence of an Innovator pilot. Once such a being is detected the Twin Drive can execute Trans-Am Burst, a massive flood of purified GN Particles across a massive area. With the Twin Drive's full abilities in constant demand to combat the A-Laws and Innovators, 00 Raiser became the mainstay unit to effectively combat opposing MS. Overall, 00 Raiser is a mobile suit that exceeds the performance of all others, surpassing the very concept of "Gundam".
